# news2meme

This is the repository with the code for the paper "News2meme: An Automatic Content Generator from News Based on Word Subspaces from Text and Image".

Small notes:
- The work presented on the paper was obtained with a Matlab code which I cannot run anymore because I do not have Matlab's license anymore. Therefore, I re-wrote everything in Python and I hope this change makes the project more accessible (even though it has been over three years since I published this paper ^^")

- In the original code, I used pre-trained word2vec embeddings. However, in this repo, I opted for using pre-trained GLoVe just because it was a bit easier for me to work. I expect the results to be pretty similar for both.

## Installation

1. Clone this repo:
```
git clone https://github.com/ericashimomoto/news2meme.git
cd news2meme
```

2. Create a conda environment based on our dependecies and activate it:
```
conda env create -n <name> --file environment.yaml
conda activate <name>
```

Where you can replace `<name>` with whatever name you want.

3. Download everything: TODO

    This script will download the following things in the folder `~/data/news2meme`:
    - The `glove.42B.300d.txt` pre-trained word embeddings.
    - The news2meme dataset, with the following structure and content:
    
            |-- news2meme
                |-- catchphrases
                    |-- catchphrases.csv
                |-- memeimages
                    |-- memeImages.csv
                |-- news
                    |-- newsinlevels_level2.csv
    
    For News2meme, you only need the csv files. If you wish, you can download the original meme images and the images used in each news article from the following two links:
        Meme images:
        News articles images:

## Configuration

If you changed the download folder, make sure to change the path in settings.py

## Train Mode:

To be able to generate the memes, you first need to compute the subspaces for each meme image and each catchphrase in the dataset. To do this, run the following:

    `python memegenerator.py --config=experiments/train.yaml`

This code will save all the subspaces into the `OUTPUT_PATH` defined in `settings.py`.

## Generation Mode:

You can generate memes in three different ways:

1. Free mode: Put your news article in a .txt file and modify the `experiments/gen_single.yaml` file with the path of the file in the `TEXT` field. Then, run the following:

    `python news2meme.py --config=experiments/gen_single.yaml`

2. Specific mode: Define the news article ID in the `experiments/gen_id.yaml` file in the `NEWS_ID` field. Then, run the following:

    `python news2meme.py --config=experiments/gen_id.yaml`
    
3. Random mode: Generate a meme for a randomly sampled news article. Run the following:
    `python news2meme.py --config=experiments/gen_random.yaml`
    
4. Full mode: Generate a meme for each news article in the database. Run the following:
    `python news2meme.py --config=experiments/gen_all.yaml`

The news2meme will place a pickle file with the retrieved meme image and catchphrase id in the path specified by `OUTPUT_PATH` in `settings.py`.

## Visualization:

To visualize the generated memes, run the following:

`python visualize.py --result=output/gen_memes_ids.pickle`

Where `output/gen_memes_ids.pickle` specifies the results generated by news2meme. The generated memes will be saved in the folder specified in field `VISUALIZATION_PATH` in `settings.py`.

## Citation:

If you use our code or dataset, please consider citing our work:

```bibtex
@inproceedings{shimomoto2019news2meme,
  title={News2meme: An automatic content generator from news based on word subspaces from text and image},
  author={Shimomoto, Erica K and Souza, Lincon S and Gatto, Bernardo B and Fukui, Kazuhiro},
  booktitle={2019 16th International Conference on Machine Vision Applications (MVA)},
  pages={1--6},
  year={2019},
  organization={IEEE}
} 
```
